
Browser - Renders server or client side HTML content, CSS styles, and JavaScript behavior. Examples are Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, MS Intenet Explorer, Safari, Opera, etc.

Server - Communicates with and supports web client requests.

nodejs (or, node) - JavaScript platform.  (ee http://nodejs.org, learnyounode at https://github.com/rvagg/learnyounode)

HTML - HyperText Markup Language.  Latest version is HTML 5.

CSS - Cascading Style Sheets provide styling for HTML markup (web page content).  Latest version is CSS 3.

JavaScript - A scripting language that implements website behavior.  Latest version is JS 1.8.5.

Console - User interface to enable interaction with web pages via a browser's Developer Tools.

Terminal - Provides input and output interface for a computer system.

Shell - An operating system utility that provides interaction with the kernel.

Bash - A shell utility available on a *nix operating system.

Zsh - An advanced version of bash that provides interaction with the kernel.  A very useful implementation is oh-my-zsh.

Package Manager - a utility that installs, updates, removes, and maintains software packages.  Different flavors of *nix are distinguished by their package manager: Mac OS X uses brew, Ubuntu Linux uses apt-get, etc.

npm - "node package manager"  is a package manager for nodejs.  (See https://www.npmjs.com/)

bower - a package manager for Foundation.

brew - "homebrew" is a package manager for Mac OS X and Ruby, an is also used for ___________?

apt-get - "advanced packaging tool" is a package manager for Ubuntu Linux.

TDD - "Test Driven Development" is a unit testing development concept whereby tests are written first, and then the implementation proceeds only as tests are passed.

BDD - "Behavior Driven Development" is a development concept based on TDD whereby behavior tests are written first, and then the implementation proceeds only as tests are passed.

Jasmine - Jasmine is a Behavior Driven Development testing framework for JavaScript. It does not rely on browsers, DOM, or any JavaScript framework. Thus it's suited for websites, Node.js projects, or anywhere that JavaScript can run.

Mocha - A JavaScript test framework running on node.js, featuring browser support, asynchronous testing, test coverage reports, and use of any assertion library.

Chai - A BDD and TDD assertion library for nodejs.

Agile - A group of software development methods in which requirements and solutions evolve through collaboration between self-organizing, cross-functional teams. It promotes adaptive planning, evolutionary development, early delivery, continuous improvement and encourages rapid and flexible response to change.

Scrum - A flexible and holistic approach to Agile software development whereby developers work as a unit in a physical co-location as a team self-organizes.  Customers provide constant feedback and are aollowed to change their requirements to ensure the end product fully meets their needs.

jQuery - A fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library. It makes HTML DOM traversal and manipulation, event handling, animation, and Ajax much simpler with an easy-to-use API that works across a multitude of browsers.

HTTP - "HyperText Transfer Protocol" is an application protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems. HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web. Hypertext is structured text that uses logical links (hyperlinks) between nodes containing text.

HTTP Method - Request methods in HTTP 1.1:

    GET - Requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data and should have no other effect (a Safe Method).

    HEAD - Asks for the response identical to the one that would correspond to a GET request, but without the response body. This is useful for retrieving meta-information written in response headers, without having to transport the entire content.

    POST - Requests that the server accept the entity enclosed in the request as a new subordinate of the web resource identified by the URI. The data POSTed might be, for example, an annotation for existing resources; a message for a bulletin board, newsgroup, mailing list, or comment thread; a block of data that is the result of submitting a web form to a data-handling process; or an item to add to a database.

    PUT - An update request that the enclosed entity be stored under the supplied URI. If the URI refers to an already existing resource, it is modified; if the URI does not point to an existing resource, then the server can create the resource with that URI.

    DELETE - Deletes the specified resource.

    TRACE - Echoes back the received request so that a client can see what (if any) changes or additions have been made by intermediate servers.

    OPTIONS - Returns the HTTP methods that the server supports for the specified URL. This can be used to check the functionality of a web server by requesting '*' instead of a specific resource.

    CONNECT - Converts the request connection to a transparent TCP/IP tunnel, usually to facilitate SSL-encrypted communication (HTTPS) through an unencrypted HTTP proxy. See HTTP CONNECT Tunneling.

    PATCH - Applies partial modifications to a resource.  

    HTTP servers are required to implement at least the GET and HEAD methods and, whenever possible, also the OPTIONS method.

REST - "REpresentational State Transfer" is an architectural style consisting of a coordinated set of architectural constraints applied to components, connectors, and data elements, within a distributed hypermedia system. REST ignores the details of component implementation and protocol syntax in order to focus on the roles of components, the constraints upon their interaction with other components, and their interpretation of significant data elements.  A REST system provides RESTful services (i.e., serves JSON data).

URI - "Uniform Resource Identifier" is a string of characters used to identify the name of a resource. Such identification enables interaction with representations of the resource over a network, typically the World Wide Web, using specific protocols. Schemes specifying a concrete syntax and associated protocols define each URI. The most common form of URI is the uniform resource locator (URL), frequently referred to informally as a web address. More rarely seen in usage is the uniform resource name (URN), which was designed to complement URLs by providing a mechanism for the identification of resources in particular namespaces.

URL - "Uniform Resource Locator" also known as a web address, particularly when used with HTTP, is a specific character string that constitutes a reference to a resource. Most web browsers display the URL of a web page above the page in an address bar. A typical URL might look like:  http://www.example.org/wiki/Main_Page
RFC 3986 (2005) classifies URLs as a specific type of uniform resource identifier (URI), although many people use the two terms interchangeably. A URL implies the means to access an indicated resource, which is not true of every URI. URLs occur most commonly to reference web pages (http), but can also have a role in file transfer (ftp), email (mailto), database access (JDBC), and many other applications (see URI scheme for a list).

OOP - "Objet-Oriented Programming" 

Inheritence - A class extends the features (properties and/or behaviors) of a super class.

JS Primitive Datatypes - Number, String, Boolean, undefined, NULL

Framework - An abstraction in which software providing generic functionality can be selectively changed by additional user-written code, thus providing application-specific software. 
    A software framework is a universal, reusable software environment that provides particular functionality as part of a larger software platform to facilitate development of software applications, products and solutions. 
    Software frameworks may include support programs, compilers, code libraries, tool sets, and application programming interfaces (APIs) that bring together all the different components to enable development of a project or solution.

    Frameworks contain key distinguishing features that separate them from normal libraries:

        o inversion of control: In a framework, unlike in libraries or normal user applications, the overall program's flow of control is not dictated by the caller, but by the framework.[1]
        o default behavior: This default behavior must be some useful behavior and not a series of no-ops.
        o extensibility: A framework can be extended by the user usually by selective overriding or specialized by user code to provide specific functionality.
        o non-modifiable framework code: The framework code, in general, is not supposed to be modified, while accepting user-implemented extensions. 
            In other words, users can extend the framework, but should not modify its code.

Library - A collection of implementations of behavior organized in such a way that it can be used by multiple programs that have no connection to each other.

DOM - Document Object Model (HTML) - A tree structure of HTML elements contained within the confines of the document, whose root is the html element.  
    The document is contianed within a window.

Synchronous Processes - Response occurs in the order of request initiation.

xhr - "XML HTTP Request" 

Asynchronous Execution - Response is does not necessarily occur in the order of request initiation.

Callback Functions - Enables asynchronous execution by ...

HTTP Status codes - Response codes to HTTP requests are: 
    200's = success, 
    300's = informational, 
    400's = resource not found error, 
    500's = server error

SCM - Source Code Management - 

Git - SCM (generic), specifically GitHub, BitBucket, etc.

Repository - git - code storage

commit - git command to save changes to a local repostitory

clone - git command to create a local repository

branch - git - a separate thread of development that can run concurrently with other development efforts in the same code base.

tag - git - a version marker of a partcular branch at a moment in time.

fork - git - replication of an external repository into your repository.

UML - "Unified Modeling Language" 

Array - (data structure) An ordered (indexed) set of objects.

Underscore - Collections API for JavaScript arrays

lo-dash - Another collections API for JavaScript arrays; superset of Underscore.
    More consistent cross-environment iteration support for arrays, strings, objects, 
    and arguments objects.  Updated more frequently than Underscore.

reduce - Reduces a collection to a value which is the accumulated result of 
    running each element in the collection through the callback, 
    where each successive callback execution consumes the return value of the previous execution. 
    If accumulator is not provided the first element of the collection will be used as the initial accumulator value. 
    The callback is bound to thisArg and invoked with four arguments; (accumulator, value, index|key, collection).
        _.reduce(collection, [callback=_.identity], [accumulator], [thisArg])
        
map - Creates an array of values by running each element in the collection through the callback
        _.map(collection, [callback=_.identity], [thisArg])

filter - Iterates over elements of a collection, returning an array of all elements the callback returns truthy for.
        _.filter(collection, [callback=_.identity], [thisArg])

splce - ?? splice ??

Hash Table - Key : Value pairs

Iteration

For Loop

Event listener

Event Handler

Meteorjs - A complete platform for building web and mobile apps in pure JavaScript.

live-reload - Monitors changes in the file system, and as soon as you save a file, 
    it is preprocessed as needed, and the browser is refreshed.  When you change a 
    CSS file or an image, the browser is updated instantly without reloading the page.

Hex Code - base 16 number system

Responsive Layout - A website that is designed to addresses the unique benefits and constraints of a range of mobile, table, and desktop devices

Foundation - A responsive front-end framework.

Bootstrap - A mobile first front-end framework.

CSS Framework - CSS frameworks are pre-prepared software frameworks that are meant to allow for easier, 
    more standards-compliant web design using the Cascading Style Sheets language. 
    Most of these frameworks contain at least a grid. (i.e., Bootstrap and Foundation).

CSS Reset - Reset styles reduce browser inconsistencies with default styles.  (i.e., meyerweb reset)

SASS - Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets - Indentation syntax.  

SCSS - Sassy CSS - The new syntax uses brackets and semicolons.  Superset of SASS and CSS, minus the indentation syntax.

Recursion - When a function repeatedly calls itself

JSON - JavaScript Object Notation, an array of objects [{}, {}, {},...]

gulp - Task runner, workflow automator.

grunt - JavaScript task runner that performs repetitive tasks.

Scope - range of accessibility of a variable.

Context - what "this" refers to

Closures - A function having access to the parent scope, 
    even after the parent function has closed (a var that remains open in memory).  
    Private variables can be made possible with closures, through self invoking 
    functions.

Promises - ?? Enables syncronous execution in asynchronous environment ?? 

Templating - 
EJS - Templating engine
Jade - Templating engine
Handlebars - Templating engine
Less - 
MVC - (Data) Model View Controller - 
MVVM - 

Authentication - A user is who they say they are
Authorization - Permission to a resource or role
Session - User's authenticated session on the server
Cookies - User's info on browser client

Deployment - A push to production (live) server, app store, website, etc. for the public end users.

Dev Ops - Developer operations administration.  A system administrator who specializes in software development.

Web Servers - (i.e., nginx, heroku) ??

VPS - Virtual Private Server - dedicated private servers

Concerns of live servers:
  Security - 
  Scaling - 
  High Availability - 

ssh - secure shell connection (remote login command)
$ ssh -p [port #] username@hostname.com

ssh key - private key authorization.

Scaling Concerns:
1) Node Clustering - optimizing performance by distributing the load among all available processors.

2) HTTP Proxy Server - direct your domain to the IP address of your (nginx) server.  Many VPS' reside on server.

3) Load Balancing - scale out to other servers in a round-robin sequenct.


whois - *ix command that returns registration information about a domain

DNS - Domain Name Sever - server resolution ??

Order of DNS resolution:
1. Browser Cache
2. /etc/hosts
3. /etc/resolv.conf

Hosting - 
Ex. Digital Ocean, Vultr, Namecheap, Rackspace, etc.

dig telodigrade.com - see dns settings






